README.md, before:

Units and Measurements
======================

Units and measurements in Racket.

A `unit` is a symbol and an exponent.
A `measure` is a number and a set of units.

Basic arithmetic operations (`m+` `m-` `m*` `m/`) are defined to work with measures.

To ease human interaction, measures can be written in an simple Domain Specific Language, that turns list-based numbers to measures.
A DSL measure can then be:
* a number alone,
* a list with a number followed by one or more DSL units.

A DSL unit can be:
* a symbol alone (taking the 1 exponent by default),
* a list with a symbol and an exponent.

The procedure `m` is a helper to turn a DSL measure into a `measure`.

Example:
```racket
> (require measures)

> (m 3)
(measure 3 (set))

> (m 3 's)
(measure 3 (set (unit 's 1)))

> (m 3 's '(m -1))
(measure 3 (set (unit 's 1) (unit 'm -1)))
```
The arithmetic operators automatically convert DSL measures into `measures`:
```racket
> (m* '(3 s) 5 '(10 m))
(measure 150 (set (unit 'm 1) (unit 's 1)))
```
Measures can be turned back to human readable values with `measure->value':
```racket
> (measure->value (m* '(3 s) 5 '(10 m)))
'(150 m s)

> (measure->value
   (m* '(3 s) '(5 (s -1))))
15
```

Adding or subtracting measures with different units raises an `exn:fail:unit` exception:
```racket
> (measure->value (m+ '(3 m (h -1)) '(2 m h)))
Error: Measures must have the same units.
Got: #<set: #(struct:unit m 1) #(struct:unit h 1)> and #<set: #(struct:unit m 1) #(struct:unit h -1)>

> (measure->value (m+ '(3 m (h -1)) '(2 m (h -1))))
'(5 m (h -1))
```

Note that this collection does _not_ automatically convert between measures,
for example pounds to grams, but it should not be too difficult to add that
on top of it.
However, explicit conversions are handled correctly, and units with exponent 0 are removed:
```racket
> (measure->value
   (m* '(52.8 ft (s -1))
       (m/ '(1 mi)
           '(5280 ft))
       (m/ '(3600 s)
           '(1 h))))
'(36.0 mi (h -1))
```

Some useful conversions can be found here:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SI_derived_unit

You may also be interested in Doug Williams scientific collection:
http://planet.racket-lang.org/package-source/williams/science.plt/4/2/planet-docs/science/physical-constants.html

Commit message:

Can now convert between non-SI units with the convert* function

README.md, after:

Units and Measurements
======================

Units and measurements in Racket.

A `unit` is a symbol and an exponent.
A `measure` is a number and a set of units.

Basic arithmetic operations (`m+` `m-` `m*` `m/`) are defined to work with measures.

To ease human interaction, measures can be written in an simple Domain Specific Language, that turns list-based numbers to measures.
A DSL measure can then be:
* a number alone,
* a list with a number followed by one or more DSL units.

A DSL unit can be:
* a symbol alone (taking the 1 exponent by default),
* a list with a symbol and an exponent.

The procedure `m` is a helper to turn a DSL measure into a `measure`.

Example:
```racket
> (require measures)

> (m 3)
(measure 3 (set))

> (m 3 's)
(measure 3 (set (unit 's 1)))

> (m 3 's '(m -1))
(measure 3 (set (unit 's 1) (unit 'm -1)))
```
The arithmetic operators automatically convert DSL measures into `measures`:
```racket
> (m* '(3 s) 5 '(10 m))
(measure 150 (set (unit 'm 1) (unit 's 1)))
```
Measures can be turned back to human readable values with `measure->value':
```racket
> (measure->value (m* '(3 s) 5 '(10 m)))
'(150 m s)

> (measure->value
   (m* '(3 s) '(5 (s -1))))
15
```

Adding or subtracting measures with different units raises an `exn:fail:unit` exception:
```racket
> (measure->value (m+ '(3 m (h -1)) '(2 m h)))
Error: Measures must have the same units.
Got: #<set: #(struct:unit m 1) #(struct:unit h 1)> and #<set: #(struct:unit m 1) #(struct:unit h -1)>

> (measure->value (m+ '(3 m (h -1)) '(2 m (h -1))))
'(5 m (h -1))
```

Conversions between units can be performed using the `convert*` function.
It takes a measure and a list of conversions and returns the converted measure.
Units with exponent 0 are removed, and conversions between non-SI units are possible
only if there exists an intermediate SI unit.
For example, to convert feet/seconds to miles/hour:
```racket
> (measure->value
   (convert* '(52.8 ft (s -1))
             '((ft mi) (s h))))
'(36.0 mi (h -1))
```
To know how many cubic meters there are in 100 cubic centimeters:
```racket
> (measure->value
   (convert* '(100 (cm 3))
             '((cm m))))
'(0.0001 (m 3))
```
Or how many degree Celsius make 100 degree Fahrenheit:
```racket
> (measure->value
   (convert* '(100 °F)
             '((°F °C))))
'(37.77777777777783 °C)
```

Some useful conversions can be found here:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SI_derived_unit

You may also be interested in Doug Williams scientific collection:
http://planet.racket-lang.org/package-source/williams/science.plt/4/2/planet-docs/science/physical-constants.html
